From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Oh, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number two 88. Recorded live
Thursday, September 29th, 2011. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Tellerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks with Steve Souders head
performance engineer at Google about
web performance and open source
initiatives. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman, another episode of Hansel
minutes. And I'm talking with
Steve Sanders head performance engineer
at, at the Google. Is
that right? Yeah, he's got,
how are you? I'm pretty
well. Have you always been
at Google? No, I've been
here a long time now
three and a half years.
I still feel new, but
you know, Google is pretty
old, but I was before
that, I was at Yahoo
for eight years. I started
a company before that, that
I sold. And before that
I was at, who were
that got bought by Lycos.
And so I had the
pleasure of being at two
companies that have a, a
grammatical symbol in their name
who were, had a question
Mark with the exclamation point
and was that some AI
companies before that. Cool. That's
funny. I've been at Microsoft
three and a half years
and I feel like I'm
new too. I still try.
I still try to pretend
like I'm new in presentations
and people aren't buying it
at this point. Yeah, I
think, you know, I don't
know what the exit turnover
rate is at Google. My
guess would be that it's
lower than other companies. And
I know folks at Microsoft
like Eric Lawrence, you know, some,
some of the people that
I've, I've been in touch
with there are real old
timers. And I think for,
you know, these good big
companies, there's a fair amount
of retention of, of people
who were there in the
early days. And so when
you go into meetings and
there's someone who has an
employee ID number, that's two
orders of magnitude lower than
yours. You kind of still
feel new. Yeah. It's funny.
Actually, one question, I didn't
think I was going to
ask you, but now I
want to ask you, is
that I've, I've kind of
complained internally and also a
little bit publicly about what
I and Microsoft people will
be upset when I say
this, but I've complained about
what I call college hires.
You know, like, you know,
I'm 38 and all to
meet some guys 38 and
we'll start talking and he
seems like a nice guy,
but then he'll feel very,
Microsofty like, I can feel
the Microsoft Venus and I'll
say, well, where did you
work before this? And I'll
find out he was hired
out of college and he's
been there for 20 years
or something. Is there a
Google equivalent of like a
life lifer? Who's never worked
a quote unquote real job.
I've never Someone like, Like
that. I'm sure they exist.
I have met, you know,
interns and other people that
we've hired straight from college,
but they're usually like 24
years old. So they've only
been here a couple of
years. So I'm sure some
exists, but in general. Oh
yeah. Yeah. I really like
it when people, I see
that my favorite Microsoft people
are the ones that leave,
go and fail at a
startup and then come back.
Why? Because they have to
then use our tools and
they're always more customer focused.
They go out, they try
to buy our stuff or
license our stuff, they suffer
and they, they gnashed their
teeth. And they, they come
back and see if we
can make this better. You
know, that's why I came
here. That's I think that's
cool. I respect people who
went out, tried something failed
and said, all right, I
know why this failed. I'm
going to go back and
I'm going to make something
better. And we always have
fun with those guys. Yeah.
Well who left Google and
come back and yeah, they
definitely have more. Yeah, definitely.
So head performance engineer, that's
a big, that's a big
thing. Performance important engineer that
doesn't say manager, that's good
head. That's very important. This
is a very important job
that you have here. Is
this an evangelism thing or
are you literally the head
performance engineer? And you're focused
on performance if all the
properties and setting the tone
for performance as a value
at the entire company, it's
Much more evangelism. One of
the things, when I started
working on performance at Yahoo,
We did really great work
there. You know, I started
that exceptional performance group and
got why slow out. And
we started doing studies and
blogging and it was going
really well. That was a
very successful episode. And, but
towards tortillas. Yeah. And I,
you know, Google was getting
bigger and stronger. And as
I would bump into these
people from Google, I got
kind of excited about thinking
about making the move because
people at Google really dug
scalability and performance and optimization,
just everyone I talked to
and you know, nothing against
Yahoo, but, you know, you
could tell it was just
part of the culture. And
in fact, I forget what
the, what it is. It's
like this, you know, seven
tenants of Google or something
like that. There's a webpage
you can find out there
that talks about, you know,
the core beliefs. And I
think item number four is
fast as better. So it
really has been around, you
know, in part of the
culture from the get go.
And so when I came
over here, I'm always part
of my well, part of
my job at Yahoo. And
here has been doing internal
consulting and working with teams
internally, but I get, I
don't have Do that much
of it here because literally
everyone is conscious of and
working on performance, not just
engineers, even PMs are thinking
about and messaging that we
just had this blog post
yesterday about. Well, really it
was about mobile optimization in
terms of content, but that
translates into faster performance. So
we had this announcement yesterday,
you know, someone working on
ad words for mobile announced
that Mo you know, sites
that are optimized for mobile
are going to get a
better Edward's quality score and
get more retinue. So like
it's everywhere. And, and that's
very cool. So as a
result, I don't need to
do as much internal evangelism
here. And so really a
large majority of my job
is so, so there's two
things about that that I
want to make sure to
mention. One is a vast
majority of my job is,
is outward facing. And the
other is I can take
very little credit for the
performance stuff that comes out
of Google cause really it's
coming from all the folks
that work here. So it
sounds like the, the, they,
they bought what you're selling,
right. I mean, performance is
baked into the culture of
Google and now you're trying
to bake it into the
culture of the internet. Everyone
should think about performance. Yeah.
And it's really nice, you
know, it's really nice that
there are companies like Yahoo
and Google that are big
enough to sponsor someone like
me. I mean, really, I'm
kind of like a research
scientist, you know, I'm batsman
for web performance across the
industry and for Google, that
makes a lot of sense.
You know, one like let's
face it, there's a financial
upside. If people spend more
time on the internet and
then they're more engaged than
they'll see more ads and
maybe click on more ads.
And Google's one of, if
not the biggest advertiser on
the internet. So there's a
financial upside for making the
web more enjoyable and engaging,
and speed, speed of that
experience of course is going
to make that more likely
to happen. But yeah, It's
also got, you know, maybe
some altruistic benefits. There are
studies. I forget who it
was. I can find it,
but there were just some
studies that came out a
few months ago, analyzing internet
infrastructure and adoption of web
technologies across developing regions around
the world. And they're, you
know, they're showing that, you
know, for countries that have,
you know, more internet adoption
jobs and exports double or
something like that, so it
raises the quality of life.
And the other thing that's
really important that I think
all web companies should be
interested in and have a
stake in is the web
stack. You know, the, you
know, as much as we
complain, Alex Russell just wrote a
great blog post this week,
the W3C and how it
should be disbanded. And as
much as you know, I
don't enjoy sitting through standards
committee meetings, you know, the
web is pretty cool for
how it functions, given the
different parties and technologies that
are used. And so, and
it's very open. And so
I think any nature, you
know, web publisher, you know,
AOL, Microsoft, Google, Facebook Yahoo,
should be very motivated to
make sure that the open
web stack is the web
stack of choice going forward
for developers and technology companies.
And a big part of
that happening is making sure
that that web stack is
really, really fast and promotes
a good user experience. And
so, you know, it's really
great that Google is willing
to invest in having me
figure out how to make
that happen and, and share
that with the rest of
the world, The full lifecycle
of performance is, you know,
it can be everything from
how things are working on
the back end and how
this web service talking to
that database or that web
other web service. Then there's
also, I think, kind of
an underappreciated side, which is
the front end performance, the
structuring, the Dom and knowing
how the Dom is perished
and JavaScript performance. There's what
they call perception of speed
performance. Do you focus on,
on front end or backend?
And why? When I started
that PR the performance work
around 2003, 2004, up until
that point, I hadn't done
any front end work at
all. So before that I
had run the, my Yahoo
team at Yahoo, it worked
on the back end user
database, you know, worldwide data,
replication architectures, you know, all
this backend stuff. And I
got asked to start working
on performance, and I assumed,
you know, in all of
my work, just because of
my background and personality was
heavily focused on optimizations. And
so I assumed that when
they meant performance, they meant
back in performance. And when
we set, sat down with
the chief product officer at
the time at Yahoo to
discuss what this group would
do, he said, Oh, no,
no, no, no. What I'm
talking about is the user
experience performance. I want the
user experience to be faster.
It's not good enough right
now. And that was the
first time that I opened
up a packet sniffer and
I loaded my Yahoo. I
loaded some other popular websites.
And I noticed this incredibly
surprising and humbling and embarrassing
thing that I call the
performance golden rule, which is
less than 10 or 20%
of the overall time that
the user waits for a
website to load is due
to what's happening on the
backend. The other 80 to
90% is what's happening to
transport the resources and to
render the page at the
client. And so up until
that point, I think even
still, when we think about
performance and optimization, we think
of the backend database and
the C plus plus compiler
and the Apache configuration and
our database schema and indexes.
And what I tell people
is you could drive all
of that time does zero
and most users wouldn't even
notice. So what we really
have to do is focus
on this front end part.
If our focus is on
a faster user experience, that
backend performance stuff is still
really, really important, but it
doesn't affect so much the
user experience. It affects scalability.
So, you know, if you
have millions and millions and
hundreds of millions of users,
you really have to pay
attention to the database in
this season and C plus
plus compilers and all that
other stuff. But it's important
to know the impact of
what you're working on. If
you're working on backend optimization
users, aren't going to notice
you shouldn't look for any
changes there 90% of the
time. You know, if you
want a faster user experience,
don't spend time on the
backend, look in the package,
different and figure out what's
taking the most time and
it's not going to be
something on the back end.
It's going to be JavaScript
or something else that's blocking
the page from loading Tools
exist to figure that stuff
out. I mean, every browser
is different and every job
everybody's got their own JavaScript
implementation, and every browser has
got their own Dom implementation
and HTML renderer. And you're,
you're, you know, you've already
gone straight to packets. Never
is when it comes to
that. I mean, there are
tools like yours, like why
slow, but it seems like
it's an, a very important
thing, but the tools really
aren't there to, to, to
do this. We're, we're still
kind of poking at this
black box with a stick.
No, no, it's not. We're
way past that. Oh my
gosh. We're so far past
that. So, you know, the,
the belief, the hypothesis of,
of these two execs at
Yahoo started this group was
they were great visionaries, Ash
Patel and Jeff Ralston was
they believed that there were
best practices that would come
out about making websites faster.
That would span most all
the properties at Yahoo. So
it wasn't like figuring out
how to make my Yahoo
faster. It was like trying
to figure out how to
make websites faster. And our
hypothesis is that those best
practices will span all the
properties at Yahoo. And not
only was that true, it
turned out that those best
practices apply to almost every
website in the world. And
so, you know, we found
these best practices, like, you
know, get a style sheets
loaded as high up in
the page as possible, and,
you know, reduce HTP requests
by creating sprites and inlining
images with data URS. And
these apply to almost every
website that's out there. And
so once we know the
best practices, the next step
was, you know, I had
these best practices is bottom
line in my mind. And
I would sit down with
development team effort development team,
after development team, open up
a packet, sniffer, look at
it, figure out what they
could do to improve it
and relay it to them.
And I just didn't have
enough time to talk to
every website that was out
there. And so that's when
I created why slow to
try to codify that knowledge
that was in my head.
And so now anyone out
there, you know, why slope
and now the Google equivalent
page speed are available and
anyone can run that on
their site and get a,
basically a to do list
of what they can do
to make performance better. And
then now we're, for the
last two years, we've been
moving into the next phase,
which is automation. And so
there are these new web
performance optimization service providers like
Actimize and strange loop networks
and tore, but that are
providing services that will apply
those fix ups to your
website. Automatically This episode of
Hansel minutes is brought to
you by careers. 2.0 careers,
2.0 is a new service
by our friends at stack
overflow. You're probably all familiar
with stack overflow. The online
QA resource dedicated specifically to
programmers and programming related topics.
Well, the team at stack
overflow created careers 2.0 to
provide you with access to
great jobs and introduce you
to a bunch of great
companies that you might consider
working for, even if you're
not currently looking for a
job, think of careers. 2.0
is a programmer profile, gives
you a platform to show
that you're awesome by featuring
your proudest contributions to stack
overflow, GitHub SourceForge Bitbucket, anything
programming related, you can even
add your favorite programming books
from amazon.com profiles on careers.
2.0 are free. They're easy
to get started, especially by
importing your LinkedIn profile. However,
there's one catch profiles on
career 2.0 or invite only
they did this to keep
out the spam and have
a high quality environment. Fortunately,
for you as a Hansel
minutes listener, I've got your
back head on over to
careers dot stack overflow.com/h M
to accept your invitation today,
once again, that's careers dot
stack, overflow.com/h M. I hope
you like it. So, so,
okay. So if the tools
are there and Paige, Paige
bead, and why slow give
the client developer that insight
into their system and a
checklist of what they can
do. And then there's server
side things like, I think
Google page speed is out
now. And you mentioned the
other ones. I know the
guys at strange loop. What
is the browser doing? Like
if, if it, if it's
so much better to have
CSS at the top, why
don't we just have the
browser pretend that it's at
the top? You know what
I'm saying? Like, what's The,
what's the browser's job for
optimization. Yeah, let's see. I
think that's kind of a
big question. I'll try to,
you know, I could say
a couple things about that.
One is, you know, being
at Microsoft and knowing, you
know,  been around the
longest and you know, so
it's really hard for IAE
to change behavior that was
cooked into IAE way back
when, because websites have been
built to depend on those
quirks, you know, that's the
whole motivation behind quirks mode.org
is, is tracking those kinds
of nonstandard perks that are
an IAE and have also
been adopted by other browsers,
because there are websites out
there that only function. If
these Quirks are Work the
way they did 10 or
15 years ago. And so
the browser vendors, browser developers
are very, very careful to
not change anything that could
potentially break a website. They
don't want to break a
single website out there. Now,
maybe if it was, you
know, 10 websites across the
entire world, that would be
less of a concern, but,
you know, if they can
find a website that's going
to break because of some
change or optimization that they're
making all the browser vendors
take that very seriously and
try to avoid that even
at the expense of having
quirks in the browser. And
so that's one thing is
it's kind of hard to
enforce these optimizations at a
generic level across every website
that exists in the world.
So where we are right
now, there are some things
we can do. Like we
can make JavaScript faster. A
great example is an led
the way it was the
first browser that downloaded scripts
in parallel with other resources.
So it turns out like
there's no reason you can't
do that. Download these bits
and bytes across the network,
Willy nilly, you know, get
them down as soon as
possible. Really all the browser
has to worry about is
executing those bytes of JavaScript
in the appropriate order. As
long as you guarantee execution
order, it really doesn't matter
what order you get the
bites on the, on the
client. And so for whatever
reason, the way that browsers
used to work before IAA
was when you started downloading
the script, it stopped everything
else in the browser. The
browser wouldn't do anything, no
other downloads, no Parsi waiting
for that script to download.
And everyone realized there was
no reason to do that.
And so that was the
safe change that could be
implemented in every browser without
breaking websites. And so the
browsers got on top of
that, but if you move
all the style sheets to
the top, it's possible, there's
one style sheet at the
top that defines a class
and it renders an element.
And there's JavaScript that looks
at the pro style properties
of that element and does
something based on that. And
then later there's another style
sheet that gets downloaded, that
changes that styling, but it's
after the JavaScript has already
executed. And so it doesn't
matter. But if the browser
just said for every website,
I'm going to move all
the style sheets to the
top, that one website out
there would break. And so
for some changes, if it's
deemed safe to apply everywhere,
browsers can do it. But
otherwise what we see with
people, you know, website owners,
either running wise, slow and
making optimizations themselves, they're choosing
to do that. They're self-selecting
to do that. Or a
website will self select to
go through one of these
optimization services. And so they
have done the due diligence
and they own that decision
of applying optimizations to their
website. So that that's kind
of the difference. And I
think where the main boundary
is the main mind between
what a browser can apply
and, and what website owners
have to self select to
buy into. I, I hear
what you're saying and I,
but I put pushing a
little bit just gently to
see if it, if it
actually makes sense to me,
is that why not break
a few websites, right? Let's
say a, you know, they
changed something in MSNBC breaks.
So what they'll fix it,
it's on the server side.
Why not let the, the
voice of the many outweigh
the needs of the one,
right? I mean, a couple
of tens of millions people
get a new browser, they
get a new benefit. One,
one of the millions of
websites, or even 10 per
even if 10% of websites
broke. That implies what you're
saying implies that they're static
resources that they've been forgotten
that they're burnt in Amber
and somehow cannot be updated
by the humans that run
them, let them update their
website. They're not unfixable Entities.
You know, I think coming
from technology companies where a
lot of what we deploy,
you know, we created that
makes sense, but there's a
huge number of companies out
there that are, that rely
on software that they didn't
create and they don't own.
And they can't alter WordPress
is a great example, but
you know, other CMS has
come to mind. And so
like, if you broke some
company that's using a CMS,
and the reason is because
the CMS is doing something
antiquated, you know, that, you
know, a website is like,
well, there's nothing I can
do about that. I'm basically
hosed. And for a lot
of CMS is, you know,
the, the people who created
that might not even be
around anymore, they might not
be able to make the
change. And so, and I
think like if it was
something where the benefit was
very, very visible and very,
very high, like a security
fix, like if we don't
deploy the security fix, there's
a 10% chance you'll lose
all your passwords. People would
be like, okay, I'm okay.
With 10% of the websites
I go to today, not
working because I don't want
to lose my passwords, but
if it's gonna make everything
10 or 20% faster by
making this change, but one
out of 10 websites, I
go to don't work, then
I'm not, you know, that's
that trade off is where
it'd be less obvious to
users and they might choose
to switch browsers, or they
might choose to turn off
auto updates. And so, you
know, I think there's in
the browser teams. I think
there's some reluctance to, to
push out changes, even if
they're going to have a
positive impact on performance. I,
I recently updated my, I
had hired a designer and
I had a guy redo
my website. And in the
process I went through and
ran wise low number of
times. And that caused me
to go and do some
bundling and modification of JavaScript
and CSS, which, which was
long, long needed. But I
still think I have a
C or a D and
I look at it and
I say, well, I've got
some ad networks and they're
not cookie lists domains. I
don't want that counted against
it. How much should I
care about my D you
know, should I really, really
make some hard decisions about
what I do to try
to get to a B?
Or if it, if I
make some of the good
changes it suggests, and the
site feels pretty good to
me, then I'll just, you
know, I'll sleep okay at
night that I have a
DNY slow. Yeah. You know,
if you have a B,
like, I think you should
work for an a, but
you can sleep at night.
If you have a D
E you shouldn't be sleeping
the date too. Did you
sleep last night? I slept
fitfully. Oh, okay. Well then
that's okay. Yeah. You just
shouldn't sleep soundly, But people
know, people look at that
as the gospel. I mean,
that's a credit, it's a
report card. Right. And you
could come home with all
A's, but your dad's going
to be like, what's that?
That's a, yeah. Yeah. How
seriously do we take this
stuff? Yeah. I mean, it's
really important. There are all
these case studies you can
find in my, almost every
talk I do now starts
with a bunch of case
studies. You know, you're going
to get, I mean, it
depends on from site to
site, but you're going to
get some really positive lift
in the metrics that you
care about, whether that's conversions
a cart size page views
per user per session, whatever
it is, you're going to
get significant lift in those,
you know, significant as, you
know, five to 20% lift
in those metrics, if the
website is faster. And so
it does matter. And so
going from a, you know,
a D is pretty bad.
And you know, what, what
I always think about is,
you know, maybe the site
doesn't seem that bad right
now, but there are also
people and with, you know,
laptops or mobile devices or
internet connections that are much
worse than what you're using.
And for those people, it
is very noticeable. And there's
also a, you know, a
new startup around the corner
or a new blogger or
whatever it is who's coming
up right behind you. And
so, you know, I think
it's really important to provide
that fast experience. And I'm
glad, you know, that folks
like Fred Wilson and Mary
Meeker who have much more
clout than I do feel
the same way. And, and
yeah, I think it's important
for a company on the
web. You know, there's, there
are definitely more important things,
you know, if, if you
can't scale to more than
10,000 users, you gotta work
on, you know, scalability and
an uptime. You know, if
you have 90% uptime, that's
not acceptable, you've got to
work on uptime. You got
to be conscientious of security
and, and user privacy, you
know, bugs if the site
is fast, but people can't
send an email, it doesn't
matter that it's fast. You
know, so functionality is important,
but once you get on
top of those, you know,
security, availability, scalability functionality, performance
is the next thing to
focus on. But if I've
got a blog, let's say
that's not a company site.
I can see getting a
B or an a on
a company site because that,
that, that makes sense. But
a blog or something, can
I go and use some
web accelerator, maybe explain what
those are, maybe I'll use
Google page speed, and I'll
just run my blog through
that. Or is that a
solution to the average person's
the midsize business and smaller,
or the average blogger in
smaller problem? Yeah. I've got
two things to say about
that. One was, you know,
when Google first announced about
a year and a half
ago that we were going
to take a website latency
or, or speed and consideration
and page ranking people, you
know, some of the complaints
about that were that, you
know, this was going to
favor the big companies. And
I feel just the opposite.
I feel like someone who,
you know, a mom and
pop or, or someone who
owns a blog is much
more able to deploy changes
more quickly and get their
performance up more easily. So,
and I, you know, I
bet you would share being,
being two guys who come
from big companies, you know,
how difficult it is to,
to, you know, make fast
progress inside a big company
to production websites, you know,
that can be very time
consuming with all the testing
and, and push process that
has to go on for
that. So, you know, that's,
that's one response to that
is I think for smaller
sites, it's actually easier to
deploy those kind of performance
optimization changes, but the other
is, yeah, it's going through
these accelerators, I think is
a great way to do
that. Especially if the website
owner is, you know, didn't
write the webs, didn't build
the website themselves is not
a programmer, or especially if
they're using some CMS again,
like a blog platform, they
can run it through one
of these accelerator companies. And,
and so, yeah, just to
talk about that really quick,
w w when they first
came out, they were, you
know, like an Apache module
or a network appliance that
you could install between your
users and your web server.
And, but then about a
year ago, we started seeing
these cloud implementations come out.
And so basically what you
would do is you would
change your DNS to point
to one of these accelerator
services. And then the accelerator
service works as a reverse
proxy, and they will proxy
your website. And as it
comes through, they will apply
the fix ups so that
the user gets a optimized
site. So in addition to
having the content be optimized,
most of these accelerators have
a better geographic presence and
a smaller mom and pop
or blogger would have. And
so you'll get those benefits
of like a CDN surface
of being, having a better
global presence And do those
change. I mean, those all
are those only for static
sites. I mean, my blog
is like, for example, a
lot of comments, I would
be afraid if I put
an intermediary between us, that
it would become less dynamic
of a site. No, they,
you know, it's, you know,
if you, if you look
the number of HTTP requests
that people have to make
to download your site of
those HTP requests that are
dynamic, it's probably like less
than 10%, probably less than
2%. And so, you know,
even though that dynamic requests
now has to take an
extra hop, to go through
the proxy, to your origin
server and back through the
acceleration, or by having the
content accelerated and the rest
of the HTTP requests accelerated
is gonna more than make
up for it. And then
if you look at these
services, they all have the
expected configuration options to, you
know, have like thinking cash
by at the minute also
what they'll do automatically, most
of them, at least all
the ones I'm aware of
is they'll, they don't necessarily,
you know, do the request
to your origin server on
demand. They're, you know, prefetching
that in the background. So
it's at fixed intervals and
a lot of them, you
can configure this or they'll
learn the behavior, they'll learn
how often your website changes.
And so they'll set, you
know, a ping rate every
five seconds or every 45
seconds, they'll check the origin
server and see if there
were any updates. So it
works pretty well. That's pretty
slick. And do you think
that this is gonna become
a big thing? Like, or
is it, will this always
be kind of a niche?
I think it's going to
become a big thing, but
go beyond performance, I think.
And in fact, there are
some people like CloudFlare that
are already doing this. If
you think about it, there's
a ton of these fix
ups that could be applied
to a website. In addition
to performance improvements, you could
do things with SEO, you
could do things for security,
you could do things for
internationalization. And so I think
we're just at the beginning
of this. And in fact,
I think something that would
be very exciting to start
working on is I think
we're going to need some,
some specification for how these
fix-up modules can interact with
each other, because what we're
eventually going to get to
is these fixed subs are
going to be commodities. I
w I want the Y
slow set of fix ups.
No, I want the page
speed set of fix ups.
No, I want the, you
know, strange loop set of
fix ups, and I want
the SEO fix ups from
this party or this party.
And so you're going to
have these, I think these,
you know, reverse proxy cloud
services are a great way
to do that, especially for,
you know, you're never going
to have an Amazon run
through one of these reverse
proxy, third party services, but
for, you know, mid tier
to smaller website owners, that
would make a lot of
sense. And I think we're
going to see this where
it's going to become a
column, a column B thing.
I can pick the fix
ups and optimizations that I
want from this reverse proxy
service and the reverse proxy
services that provide the most
powerful and widest variety of
fix ups to apply are
going to be the winners.
It sounds like it's going
to get a lot easier,
but at the same time,
it seems like it's gonna
be a lot more complex.
I mean, this is definitely
one more thing people need
to be thinking about if
they're not already, it seems
like an obvious thing to
think about performance, but can,
it kind of seems like
people are just throwing websites
up there and not even
giving a thought, are they?
Yeah, I don't, I don't,
Yeah. I guess the big
sites do, but it just
seems to me like the
average, like your dentist, local
dentist office, he doesn't think
about things like that. And
he shouldn't, he should just
push the, make it faster
button. Yeah. Yeah. I hate
to say it, but I
agree with you. That's always,
that's always a good place
to end. The podcast is,
you know, like, like I,
my site's hosted on dream
host. And if you go
to a dream house now
to host your there's actually
a check box, you can
check that says, apply the
page speed, fix ups. So
nice. How many people checked
that box? Probably, you know,
a vast minority, but after
that's been out for a
year or two, and it
doesn't cause any of those
websites to break, maybe instead
of opting in, you have
to opt out. And so
the dentist who spins up
a website off of dream
posts will get those fix
ups automatically without even asking
for it. And so, you
know, I think we're still
in the early stages of
this, but certainly the tools
and techniques are gonna harden
and, and get better as
time goes by. Very cool.
Well, thank you so much,
Steve, for chatting with me
today, that was really interesting.
And I was honored when
I got your pink to
be on Hansel minutes. I've
been checking some of the
past podcasts and they've all
been really interesting and, and
it was a pleasure to
be invited on, have this
conversation with you, Scott. I
hope we can do it
again soon. Alright. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes. We'll see you again
next week. .